All right.
So let's go ahead and actually solve this current solve for the currents here for this multi loop circuit.
So again the first thing I'm going to do I have already identified the direction what I'm going to do
now is I'm going to replace everything here by one equivalent resistance.
So the first thing I want to do is I'm going to combine our two and our three if you combine our two
and our three they are in parallel with each other.
So we're going to call this our equivalent one
in this case here.
You simply multiply them and divided by the sum I multiply them I get eight divided by the sum which
is six.
So at the end you get for over three.
OK.
And then our equivalent total is call it our equivalent down over here is simply adding R1 Plus my intermediate
are equivalent.
So in this case I get three ohms plus for over three.
Put things on a common denominator.
This is nine over three plus for over three.
Gives me 13 over 3 ohms.
So our equivalent
13 over 3 Put that in the calculator gives you approximately 4.3.
All right so I have the value now of my equivalent resistance that is plugged into a tenable battery.
You should be able to find what the current is right.
You can write down ohms law for this or you can do a loop rule here if you want to get plus 10 minus
minus the current multiplied by the equivalent resistance that I just found that must be equal to zero.
So the current is simply equal to 10 divided by the equivalent resistance that's 10 divided by 13 over
3.
So gives me 30 over 13.
Put that in the calculator.
I think I got roughly 2.3.
OK 2.3 pairs.
This is the current over here in this section.
Actually the nice thing is not only is that the current flowing through the battery since the battery
is in series with this resistance are one.
It's also the resistance flowing through here.
So we're done that part.
OK the next part now is well what you want to do now is you want to find the current Iowan want Aitu.
So like I said before what you could do is you could write down a junction rule if you wrote down a
junction rule you would find that let's call this equation one you'd find that the current by are 2.3
that we just solve for must be equal to either one plus the current Aitu.
So now we're left with really two unknowns we're left with.
I want an aitu and we have one equation that links them.
So what you require now is at least one other equation.
Know what you can do one easier way of doing this is simply to do a loop.
It doesn't matter which one you choose lets just choose the loop.
That's the most on the left here.
And again I'm going to go around in the in a clockwise direction and start down here.
The first thing I encounter is that battery will be equation too.
So I get plus 10 volts.
Now I'm going to get a voltage drop across the resistance are one the voltage drop is given by three
times the current I and now if I go down this first branch I'm also going to get a voltage drop and
the voltage drop down that branch is given by two times I won two is the value of the resistance and
the value of the current flowing through here I've labeled it I won and then I go back to where I started.
That must be equal to zero.
Now if I look at equation to look at all the unknowns and equation to you know what the current AI is
so you know what the second term is.
So really the only unknown an equation too is the current.
Actually you can go ahead and solve for that.
So one is simply equal to 10 minus three multiplied by 2.3.
And all of that must be divided by two.
So the current one did things correctly I got about 1.5 5.
All right well once you have this you can then substitute this and equation one.
Another thing I could have done is I could have done a another loop.
It doesn't matter which method you choose at the end as long as you get the same answer.
If you choose the outer loop let's just do it just as an example over here.
The equation is going to look very very similar to equation to the first two terms are going to be the
exact same because I'm crossing the exact same elements let's go over here call this equation 3.
So again you're going to get plus 10 minus 3i which I know.
And then the last part is going down here through this forum resistor and I two equals to zero.
This will give me an expression directly for the current Aitu which is 10 minus 3i divided by four this
time so that have divided by two at the end.
This gives you zero point seven seven five approximately.
So here I've got values for the currents.
Here's the current.
And here's the current I'd to so this is one way of solving for the three currents.
OK.
You needed three different equations actually in this case.
We reduced that to only two equations by using the equivalent resistance method here that allowed us
to find for the current AI and a lot of cases you're able to do that if there are multiple batteries
and you're unable to simplify them you'll still be able to use my rules you'll just have to set up three
independent equations.